For now, I want to make sure that we can reach our orders page
and for that, we first of all need to add one.
So let's add a new screen,
the orders screen, therefore the orders_screen.dart file which has a stateless widget in it, orders
screen and there, we import material.dart as always
and the goal there is to output information about our orders. Since this will fill an entire page,
I'll use scaffold here and add an appBar with the title which holds a text widget where I say your orders,
something like that
and then the body is of course
the interesting part.
There,
I want to output information about my orders that were placed and each order
then in turn contains information about the different products that were part of that order
of course. We definitely need to get access to our orders therefore and hence we need to import from
the providers folder, our orders.dart file where the orders class is defined and then here in the
build method,
we can get access to orders with provider for which you need to import
the provider.dart file from the provider package, of orders and then pass context as an argument here
and now here in the body,
I want to render a ListView with the builder constructor because we don't know how many orders we'll
have,
so to improve performance potentially at least, I'll use the builder and the item count, not the builder,
the item count is of course taken from orders and there,
I also named my getter orders. Now orders.orders
sounds a bit strange
so I'll name this variable here orderData and then we have orderData.orders
and there, the length is of course what defines the amount of items that have to be built
and then we have the itemBuilder which should go ahead and build
the single list items and as always, it gets a context and an index for that.
Now as always, we could add all the widget content for a single item here into the orders screen or we
create a new separate widget
and I did it already for cart and product item, so I'll do it here as well, have my order item in a separate
file, create a stateless widget, order item and import material.dart there.
Now as always, it's up to you how you structure and style this.
For me, an order will be in a cart widget and I want to add some margin around each cart, so around
each order with EdgeInsets.all of 10 and then we need a child in that cart and there, I'll actually
have a column and
that's just how I will structure the items in my order because and that's the special thing about this,
this should actually be an expandable cart, where we can click a button to see more details and therefore
here in this column, in my children, I'll first of all have a ListTile as the first element in that column,
so the topmost element and there, I want have a title which is a text widget where I want to show the
total amount it cost us,
so output \$ to print a dollar sign and then string interpolation to output
the order amount. For that we need to get access to our order data and here in order
item, I expect to get that data from outside.
So here, we should get our full order item let's say of type order.
Now for that, we of course need to import our order item or our providers/orders.dart file where
the order item class is defined.
Now we'll have a name clash which we had before too,
we have order item here as a widget name but then we also have order item as a class name here in the
orders.dart file.
Now I showed you two workarounds, the prefix or by using the show keyword. Show doesn't help us because
we now need the class which has the name clash but we can use a prefix here as ord for example
and then here, we use ord.orderItem to tell Dart to which concrete order item class we're referring
and now this is fixed
and of course now we use order item, so this order item here now to define a constructor where we assign
a value to order.
So now I expect to get my order here and therefore of course, I have my amount, my total amount in there
as well. Now in that ListTile, below the title, I also want to have a subtitle where I show the date of the
order and for that, I want to bring back a package which we used earlier in the course, the intl package
which you install by going to its page on pub.dev, grabbing the version there,
so that's the intl package there and then in your pubspec.yaml file, you simply add that below
your dependencies and this gives you the intl package which helps you with formatting dates and
then back in the order item widget, you can simply import package:intl/intl.dart
and now in the place where you want to output a formatted date, you can use date format and either use
one of the preconfigured constructors to get different formats or provide your own one as a pattern
to the normal date format constructor here and there, the pattern I'll provide is dd MM yyyy to have
the day represented by two figures, the month here, then the year by four figures and then even hour and
minute with a colon in between and
that's just one format I like to use here and then call format and pass in your order
datetime and that should do the trick and output the datetime below the title. And now trailing, I want to
have a button which we can press to expand this order. For that,
I'll add an icon button and the icon there will be icon widget where I use the expand_more button.
Now onPressed, I want to do the logic for expanding this but that's a second step,
let's first of all see whether that works.
So let's build this order item for every order we have. For that, let's head back to the orders screen
and simply import from the widgets folder and there, from order item and with that order item imported
here,
that's exactly what we need to build here, right?
So let's build our order item.
Now again here, we'll have a similar clash of names as we had it before.
Here however, the difference is that from the orders.dart file, I don't need the order item but only the
orders class, so we can again use show orders to only import that from this file and then we'll import
the order item class from the order_item.dart file.
Therefore here, we can instantiate this and here, we need to forward the entire order. Well that's not
too hard,
we got our order data orders here and we forward the order for the index we got at hand. So with that,
we're building the order items in our orders screen,
we now of course need a way of reaching it
and I want to use a side drawer for that. Now definitely feel three to of course build your own one and
thereafter watch the next video where I will do it together with you but as I just said, in
the next video, we'll do together but that's also a nice practice.
You learned all about adding a drawer in the navigation module of this course,
so definitely try this on your own first and then we'll do it together in the next lecture.